# a jumping off point

Demo (may be broken) https://rfctoreader.herokuapp.com/?rfc=7946

This is just a jumping off point. I don't have the bandwidth to really push it to
the finish line, but I bet someone else does.

## what is it

The HTML versions of IETF RFCs are generated by [rfcmarkup](https://tools.ietf.org/tools/rfcmarkup/),
a Python script. They're not very web-friendly. They have an aesthetic but
not a friendly aesthetic, it's more like what you'd want if you were targeting
a dot-matrix printer. Authoritative but cold.

This is

1. A fork of rfcmarkup that updates it to Python 3, attaches it to Flask, deploys it to Heroku and
2. Tries to make it a little prettier

The truth is that rfcmarkup is, well, as beautiful inside as it is outside, which is not very,
which is fine - no shade, good vibes all around - but it really is not what you'd call
a _systematic_ approach, it's more like an agglomeration of instructions run
in order.

So this goes as far as I could in a quick lil coding session toward cleaning up its output -
removing page breaks, updating the style a little bit, trying to move away from pre formatting.

The big thing is pre formatting. That'd require - afaict - some more mature parsing
rather than the repeated-regex pattern that rfcmarkup established and I followed here.

Anyway, the big 'plus' here is that it's still pretty darn authoritative because
it's basically doing the same exact thing that the IETF does itself to generate
those HTML versions. If a spec gets updated, then this will consume the updates.
And so on. Also it'd work for (posssibly) all specs.

## how to move it from here

locally, you can install it (it requires flask, requests, python3), and run it like

```
FLASK_DEBUG=1 FLASK_APP=main.py flask run
```

And if you make a heroku app for it, you can push it to heroku and it'll run
with gunicorn.

### if you really want to finish it

- Add a caching layer so that it doesn't phone home to ietf servers for every request
- Add some meta information to the output so people know that they're viewing the nice-formatted version
- Clean up the code maybe
- As previously mentioned, fix up that pre formatting. It's really the least-specified,
  crummiest part of IETF specs, that they intermix code and english willy-nilly in a way
  that's quite tricky to automatically format correctly.
- But where there's a will there's a way.
